Well that was a lot of talking, let's install this cli and inside a Mac, we will have to write sudo, on
Windows you don't need this and then npm
and what is npm? NPM is the node package manager,
so for this to work you will need to install nodejs.
You don't need nodejs because you are going to write any nodejs code,
we're not going to write any node code,
we're not going to write our own server side code.
We will need it
solely for now for this node package manager which is the defacto tool to use for frontend development
to manage your dependencies, so we will definitely need this
and also because this development server which will be included in the template we're using, so we don't
have to write it on our own but it will still use nodejs to run
so we need it for this too.
So make sure to download the current version, the 6.8.1 version
in this case, well at the time I record this video
but the latest one you see here. And then download it, run through the installer and after it finishes, you will
have nodejs installed and you're ready to use npm and nodejs for the server.
And then you can continue here,
so sudo npm and then install -g to install it globally on your machine, the
vue-cli.
Now after hitting enter, I'll have to enter my password here and that will pull down and install
the cli on my machine and I'll be back once it is finished.
Now that the installation did finish, I can navigate into the folder where I want to store my project folder,
where I want to create my vue-cli project or my vuejs project and I can then do this by simply
running vue,
this is available since we just installed the vue-cli
and then which template I want to use so which template of my project I want to use.
If we have a look at the official vue-cli github page, you can find it by googling for vue-cli,
you will also find the explanations here but you will also find the available templates I was mentioning
on these slides earlier.
So I'll choose the webpack-simple setup which has everything we need for this course,
so here it's all about writing vue init to initialize a new project, then the template you want to
use which is webpack-simple
and then the project folder you want to create,
I'm going to name my vue-cli, this name is totally up to you.
Now after hitting enter, this will setup this project as you will see it will use the 2.x version
by default which is what you want, if you wanted to use vue 1.x
you have to attach this hashtag after the template.
So yeah I will confirm the default project name, default description as well as my name here
and then we're done.
So now let's follow these commands and enter the vue-cli folder we just created with that
and then we have to run npm install to pull down all the dependencies this needs because this just created
the template with the package.json and in this package.json
file,
that's our dependency management file so to say, all the dependencies of this project are listed and
we're installing all these dependencies here.
That being said, that is almost only development only dependencies,
the only production dependency should be vuejs, the rest will be webpack and so on, quite a bit
as you can see
but no worries,
we don't need to deploy all of them, as I just said
most of them are only needed for development.
So going back up, we see that thereafter we should run npm run dev inside this project folder,
so let's do this and this will start the development server
we can use and it will keep running, so keep this process running and will automatically recompile everything
and reload our server automatically whenever we change a file.
So let's visit this URL here in case it didn't open up automatically which it did here and
you should see this starting page.
Now that's just a little starting page which shipped with the template, of course we're going to edit
this and this is what we'll do next,
have a look at the folder structure which was created and how we can work with that project.